UMass Amherst Social Psychology Math Cheating Task Application
Copyright © 2012
Mindi Rock, Evan Shelhamer
mrock@psych.umass.edu, eshelham@cs.umass.edu

This application, its data, and documentation are released under the MIT license
(see LICENSE). The authors make no guarantee or warranty, express or implied,
regarding this software.

-- The Experiment --

The Math Cheating Task Application implements an experiment in which subjects
answer arithmetic questions with the option to cheat. Their responses are
collected, along with timing and whether or not the subject cheated. The
application sequentially presents 20 arithmetic questions with natural numbers
in the range of 1-20 and the operations of addition and subtraction. A response
is accepted from the subject by typing the answer. If a response is incorrect,
the question is repeated. The presentation of a question and the series of
responses until the correct solution make up a single trial. There is no time
limit in answering the questions.

An answer is entered by typing a number into a text box and pressing enter. If
the answer is correct, a prompt informs the subject and the next trial begins.
If the answer is incorrect, a prompt informs the subject and the current trial
continues.

The experiment is divided into two blocks of ten questions.

Subjects may cheat by pressing the right mouse button during the presentation of
a question. The answer is displayed once the right mouse button has been
pressed. This is explained as an artifact of testing the application that the
programmer failed to remove when the application was finished.

The equations presented for the experiment are fixed for all subjects. If
desired, random equations could be generated instead with simple modifications
of the application.

-- The Data --

The data for each subject is written to a file in CSV (comma-separated value)
format. The filename is chosen by the experimenter when the application is
launched.

Each trial is written to a single line of the file.

The data fields recorded for each trial are:

* trial time: the total time elapsed (in ms) from the beginning of a trial
  until its correct solution
* number of attempts: the number of answers submitted for the trial; this is
  1 for a correct answer on the first attempt
* solution time: the time (in ms) from the last presentation of the question
  until the submission of the correct solution
* cheat time: the time in (ms) from the last presentation of the question
  until the subject cheats by pressing the right mouse button to display the
  answer. 0 if the subject does not cheat on a trial.

These fields are written in this order: trial time, number of attempts, solution
time, cheat time.

The CSV data files can be read by many standard office and statistical
applications such as Excel, R, SPSS, etc.

-- The Application --

This application is implemented with the Processing programming language and
environment. Processing is an open source, cross platform, and freely-available
platform for general purpose interactive applications with special functionality
for web, art, and music purposes.

To learn more about Processing visit http://http://processing.org/

-- Citing --

Rock, M., Shelhamer, E. (2012). Math Cheating Task Application (Version 1).

  [Computer software]. Amherst, MA: University of Massachusetts Amherst.

  Available from http://github.com/shelhamer/umass-psych-math-cheat-task
